---
layout: page
title: Projects
---

### Graduate Course Projects
- PHGN 519: Fundamentals of Quantum Information -- [Simulating a CZ gate on a Rydberg based Quantum Computer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1COKe6jYJEDeAWXQ5zuAUS6Evx8w1LnEP/view){:target="_blank"}
  * We had two goals for this project: first, to demonstrate an understanding of Shor’s algorithm, and second, to utilize the 3-level Hamiltonian to simulate a pulse 5-CZ gate on a Rydberg atom array, a necessary gate for implementing Shor’s algorithm.

### Undergraduate Research Projects
- Senior Year Thesis: [Quantum Sensing for the Ohmic Quantum Reservoir](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JQ-EtKtqnRoUv-jF19-RqebTHTVr4iav/view){:target="_blank"} (Supervisor: [Dr. Adam Zaman Chaudhry](https://scholar.google.com.pk/citations?user=RNBPLXwAAAAJ&hl=en){:target="_blank"})
  * **Abstract:** Our primary area of interest will be understanding the basics of quantum sensing and metrology, and how to use these techniques to extract information embedded in the spectral density function, for a complex ohmic reservoir. We want to extract this information because it is one of the key steps in preventing quantum decoherence, and increasing the precision of our measurements. However, coupling a quantum sensor to the reservoir makes the dynamics non-unitary, which degrades the quantum resources. We are looking to find a mechanism that prevents this degradation, and allows us to reclaim our resources, specifically, the encoding time t, and number of qubits N. Some preliminaries introduced will be quantum Fisher information, which tells us that we can surpass the shot noise limit, estimating the parameters of spectral density functions belonging to ohmic families, along with an overview of approaches already used to enhance precision in quantum measurement.
- Optical Spectroscopy of Molybdenum Disulfide (Supervisor: [Dr. Ata Ulhaq](https://scholar.google.com.pk/citations?user=H_7euxAAAAAJ&hl=en){:target="_blank"})
  * I conducted an experimental study during my sophomore year to study the properties of transition metal dichalcogenides, specifically exploring the thickness of molybdenum disulfide. I carried out my study using optical microscopy; I learned how to properly exfoliate the nanosheets onto a PDMS substrate to obtain flakes, and how to take images of the flakes using a microscope and generate their plot profiles using imaging software. Successfully identifying monolayers, I employed the optical contrast method to then determine the thicknesses of subsequent layers. To validate the accuracy of my results, I compared them with the Raman spectroscopy data for the same flakes, and confirmed the precision of my layer analysis.
 
### Undergraduate Course Projects
- PHY 603: Machine Learning for Physics -- [Neural Networks as Function Approximators](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1RGc2un_xmJYQ1o6MyU4BxqE36z43cGoR/view){:target="_blank"}
  * Analyzed the impact of hidden layers, units, and activation functions on the mean squared error after approximating a given function. Also applied regression analysis to quantify the influence of parameters on the neural network’s accuracy.
- PHY 612: Quantum Information Science and Technology -- [Analysis of Bernstein-Vazirani Algorithm](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JRnIsyIpfeYWTd-jSzT4ZJGMGNg27oDL/view){:target="_blank"}
  * **Abstract:** This report aims to explore and build the intuition behind the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm, a quantum algorithm designed to efficiently determine an unknown bit string hidden in an oracle. It has a relatively simple mathematical structure and circuit implementation, which makes it an ideal candidate for practical applications in quantum computing. In this report, we discuss the algorithm’s mathematical structure, focusing on the quantum properties that allow it a significant advantage over the classical algorithm. We show both the classical algorithm and explain in detail the working of quantum algorithm, including the logic behind the creation of the circuit.
- PHY 442: General Relativity -- [Wormholes](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JPPmjWMTJzrGvqmOYsgYvsyA7rRGf3gl/view){:target="_blank"}
  * **Abstract:** In this report, we explore the possibility of a traversable wormhole, and also derive one such solution by solving the Einstein field equations for the Ellis drainhole metric. This derivation is prefaced by a discussion on blackholes and Schwarzschild wormholes, and followed by some concluding remarks on what this could mean for future advances.
